[doc] add doc and example for Ray TLS (#33737)
ray-project/ray: doc/source/ray-core/configure.rst

if the owner of the public key does not want to obtain a digital certificate from a CA, 
they can generate a self-signed certificate with some tools like OpenSSL. 

To obtain a digital certificate, the owner of the public key must generate a Certificate Signing
Request (CSR). The CSR contains information about the owner of the public 
key and the public key itself. For Ray, some additional steps are required for achieving 
a successful TLS encryption.

Here is a step-by-step guide for adding TLS Authentication to a static Kubernetes Ray cluster using
a self-signed certificates:

Step 1: Generate a private key and self-signed certificate for CA
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

.. code-block:: bash

  openssl req -x509 \
              -sha256 -days 3650 \
              -nodes \
              -newkey rsa:2048 \
              -subj "/CN=*.ray.io/C=US/L=San Francisco" \
              -keyout ca.key -out ca.crt

Use the following command to encode the private key file and the self-signed certificate file,
then paste encoded strings to the secret.yaml.

.. code-block:: bash

  cat ca.key | base64
  cat ca.crt | base64

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
# Alternatively, the command automatically encode and create the secret for the CA keypair.
kubectl create secret generic ca-tls --from-file=ca.crt=<path-to-ca.crt> --from-file=ca.key=<path-to-ca.key>

```

------------------

Ray can be configured to use TLS on it's gRPC channels.
This means that connecting to the Ray head will require
an appropriate set of credentials and also that data exchanged between

> various processes (client, head, workers) will be encrypted.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
various processes (client, head, workers) are encrypted.
```

> In TLS, the private key and public key are used for encryption and decryption, in

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
In TLS, the private key and public key are used for encryption and decryption.
```

> which the former is kept secret by the owner and the latter is shared with the other

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The former is kept secret by the owner and the latter is shared with the other
```

> party. This pattern is to make sure that only the intended recipient can read the message.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
party. This pattern ensures that only the intended recipient can read the message.
```

A Certificate Authority (CA) is a trusted third party that certifies the identity of the
public key owner. The digital certificate issued by the CA contains the public key itself, 
the identity of the public key owner, and the expiration date of the certificate. Note that
if the owner of the public key does not want to obtain a digital certificate from a CA, 
they can generate a self-signed certificate with some tools like OpenSSL. 

> In order to obtain a digital certificate, the owner of the public key must generate a

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
To obtain a digital certificate, the owner of the public key must generate a
```

Certificate Signing Request (CSR). The CSR contains information about the owner of the public 
key and the public key itself. For Ray, some details need to be paid attention to for achieving 
a successful TLS encryption.

> Here is a step-by-step guide to add TLS Authentication to a static Kubernetes Ray cluster using a

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Here is a step-by-step guide for adding TLS Authentication to a static Kubernetes Ray cluster using a
```

self-signed certificates:

Step 1: Generate a private key and self-signed certificate for CA
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

.. code-block:: bash

  openssl req -x509 \
              -sha256 -days 3650 \
              -nodes \
              -newkey rsa:2048 \
              -subj "/CN=*.ray.io/C=US/L=San Francisco" \
              -keyout ca.key -out ca.crt

Use the following command to encode the private key file and the self-signed certificate file,
then paste encoded strings to the secret.yaml.

.. code-block:: bash

  cat ca.key | base64
  cat ca.crt | base64

Step 2: Generate individual private keys and self-signed certificates for Ray head and workers

> ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
```

Within the `YAML file

> <https://raw.githubusercontent.com/ray-project/ray/master/doc/source/cluster/kubernetes/configs/static-ray-cluster.tls.yaml>`__, there is a ConfigMap named `tls` that

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
<https://raw.githubusercontent.com/ray-project/ray/master/doc/source/cluster/kubernetes/configs/static-ray-cluster.tls.yaml>`__, has a ConfigMap named `tls` that
```

> includes two shell scripts: `gencert_head.sh` and `gencert_worker.sh`. These scripts are used to

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
includes two shell scripts: `gencert_head.sh` and `gencert_worker.sh`. These scripts
```

produce the private key and self-signed certificate files (`tls.key` and `tls.crt`) for both head and
worker Pods in the initContainer of each deployment. By using the initContainer, we can dynamically
retrieve the `POD_IP` to the `[alt_names]` section. 

The scripts perform the following steps: first, a 2048-bit RSA private key is generated and saved as 
`/etc/ray/tls/tls.key`. Then, a Certificate Signing Request (CSR) is generated using the `tls.key` file

> and the `csr.con` configuration file. Finally, a self-signed certificate (`tls.crt`) is created using

Reviewer: ```suggestion
and the `csr.conf` configuration file. Finally, a self-signed certificate (`tls.crt`) is created using
```

Author: Done

the Certificate Authority's (`ca.key`) private key and the CSR (`ca.csr`).

Step 3: Set the environment variables for both Ray head and worker to enable TLS
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

TLS is enabled by setting environment variables.

- ``RAY_USE_TLS``: Either 1 or 0 to use/not-use TLS. If this is set to 1 then all of the environment variables below must be set. Default: 0.

> - ``RAY_TLS_SERVER_CERT``: Location of a `certificate file (tls.crt)` which is presented to other endpoints so as to achieve mutual authentication.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- ``RAY_TLS_SERVER_CERT``: Location of a `certificate file (tls.crt)`, which is presented to other endpoints to achieve mutual authentication.
```

> - ``RAY_TLS_SERVER_KEY``: Location of a `private key file (tls.key)` which is the cryptographic means to prove to other endpoints that you are the authorized user of a given certificate.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- ``RAY_TLS_SERVER_KEY``: Location of a `private key file (tls.key)`, which is the cryptographic means to prove to other endpoints that you are the authorized user of a given certificate.
```

> - ``RAY_TLS_CA_CERT``: Location of a `CA certificate file (ca.crt)` which allows TLS to decide whether an endpoint's certificate has been signed by the correct authority.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- ``RAY_TLS_CA_CERT``: Location of a `CA certificate file (ca.crt)`, which allows TLS to decide whether an endpoint's certificate has been signed by the correct authority.
```

Step 4: Verify TLS authentication
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

.. code-block:: bash

  # Log in to the worker Pod
  kubectl exec -it ${WORKER_POD} -- bash
  
  # Since the head Pod has the certificate of full qualified DNS resolution for the Ray head service, the connection to the worker Pods 

>   # will be established successfully

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
  # is established successfully
```

  ray health-check --address service-ray-head.default.svc.cluster.local:6379

>   # Since service-ray-head hasn't added to the alt_names section in the certificate, the connection will fail and an error

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
  # Since service-ray-head hasn't added to the alt_names section in the certificate, the connection fails and an error
```

>   # message similar to the following will be displayed: "Peer name service-ray-head is not in peer certificate".

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
  # message similar to the following is displayed: "Peer name service-ray-head is not in peer certificate".
```

  ray health-check --address service-ray-head:6379

>   # After add `DNS.3 = service-ray-head` to the alt_names sections and deploy the YAML again, the connection is able to work.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
  # After you add `DNS.3 = service-ray-head` to the alt_names sections and deploy the YAML again, the connection is able to work.
```

Enabling TLS will cause a performance hit due to the extra overhead of mutual
authentication and encryption.
Testing has shown that this overhead is large for small workloads and becomes
relatively smaller for large workloads.

> The exact overhead will depend on the nature of your workload.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The exact overhead depends on the nature of your workload.
```

a self-signed certificates:

Step 1: Generate a private key and self-signed certificate for CA
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

.. code-block:: bash

  openssl req -x509 \
              -sha256 -days 3650 \
              -nodes \
              -newkey rsa:2048 \
              -subj "/CN=*.ray.io/C=US/L=San Francisco" \
              -keyout ca.key -out ca.crt

Use the following command to encode the private key file and the self-signed certificate file,
then paste encoded strings to the secret.yaml.

.. code-block:: bash

  cat ca.key | base64
  cat ca.crt | base64
# Alternatively, the command automatically encode and create the secret for the CA keypair.
kubectl create secret generic ca-tls --from-file=ca.crt=<path-to-ca.crt> --from-file=ca.key=<path-to-ca.key>

Step 2: Generate individual private keys and self-signed certificates for the Ray head and workers
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

The `YAML file
<https://raw.githubusercontent.com/ray-project/ray/master/doc/source/cluster/kubernetes/configs/static-ray-cluster.tls.yaml>`__, has a ConfigMap named `tls` that

> include two shell scripts: `gencert_head.sh` and `gencert_worker.sh`. These scripts produce the private key

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
includes two shell scripts: `gencert_head.sh` and `gencert_worker.sh`. These scripts produce the private key
```

and self-signed certificate files (`tls.key` and `tls.crt`) for both head and worker Pods in the initContainer
of each deployment. By using the initContainer, we can dynamically retrieve the `POD_IP` to the `[alt_names]` section. 

The scripts perform the following steps: first, a 2048-bit RSA private key is generated and saved as 
`/etc/ray/tls/tls.key`. Then, a Certificate Signing Request (CSR) is generated using the `tls.key` file
and the `csr.conf` configuration file. Finally, a self-signed certificate (`tls.crt`) is created using

> the Certificate Authority's (`ca.key`) private key and the CSR (`ca.csr`).

Reviewer: no biggie. no one will notice. change up to you.

```suggestion
the Certificate Authority's (`ca.key and ca.crt`) keypair and the CSR (`ca.csr`).
```

> require an appropriate set of credentials and also that data exchanged between

Reviewer 3: @architkulkarni's comments from https://github.com/ray-project/kuberay/pull/989

https://github.com/ray-project/kuberay/pull/989#discussion_r1149634284
https://github.com/ray-project/kuberay/pull/989#discussion_r1149635676

Author: Done

public key owner. The digital certificate issued by the CA contains the public key itself, 
the identity of the public key owner, and the expiration date of the certificate. Note that
if the owner of the public key does not want to obtain a digital certificate from a CA, 
they can generate a self-signed certificate with some tools like OpenSSL. 

In order to obtain a digital certificate, the owner of the public key must generate a
Certificate Signing Request (CSR). The CSR contains information about the owner of the public 
key and the public key itself. For Ray, some details need to be paid attention to for achieving 
a successful TLS encryption.

Here is a step-by-step guide to add TLS Authentication to a static Kubernetes Ray cluster using a
self-signed certificates:

Step 1: Generate a private key and self-signed certificate for CA
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

.. code-block:: bash

  openssl req -x509 \
              -sha256 -days 3650 \
              -nodes \
              -newkey rsa:2048 \
              -subj "/CN=*.ray.io/C=US/L=San Francisco" \
              -keyout ca.key -out ca.crt

> Use the following command to encode the private key filr and the self-signed certificate file,

Author: Done
